---
layout: post
title: Probiotic-Based Supplements and Their Role in a Healthy Gut
description: Probiotic Supplements and Side Effects
image: assets/images/supplements.jpg
---

Bio x4 is a relatively new dietary supplement that is mainly based on the use of probiotics. Probiotics are beneficial bacteria that keep our digestive systems healthy. We know that the word “bacteria” scares some people, but that is only because a lot of us are not informed well. There are a lot of bacteria in our bodies. Some of it is bad but some of it is good, and we need both of these types to have a healthy body. However, if the harmful bacteria outweigh the good bacteria, then we are in big trouble because this occurrence can create significant digestive problems. Of course, the good bacteria can be maintained healthy if we have healthy diets and balanced lifestyles, but if we are honest, very people do these days. So scientists have been researching the supplementation of probiotics for a while now, and they did find some benefits. One of them had to do with weight loss because apparently, a good balance between probiotics and harmful bacteria can help maintain a regulated weight. 

**More about Probiotics**

The newfound popularity of probiotics is why a lot of people are trying to consume more foods and supplements that contain probiotics. If we kept thinking that all bacteria is harmful and we would not have found out about how much we need good bacteria, the idea of ingesting bacteria would have been terrifying, but in the last few years it has become evident to us that it is essential to keep a good balance between the good and the bad if we want to be healthy.

[Probiotics are mainly found in the colon](https://www.theguardian.com/lifeandstyle/2014/nov/30/probiotics-myth-or-miracle-prebiotics), although they exist all throughout the digestive tract. In the colon, they facilitate an easier digestion and increase the nutrient absorption of the digestive system. Not only that, but a good balance of bacteria in the digestive system has shown to be quite efficient in the loss of excess fat in the body. This and the fact that probiotic supplementation can contribute to a stronger immune system is the reason why a lot of manufacturers of foods or supplements incorporate them in a lot of their products. Unfortunately, they became so popular that they are starting to be misused in various foods, drinks or supplements because they are not alive probiotics at the time of the consumption. It is important to find quality products that are going to provide you with bacteria that are alive and that have not been chemically changed by other ingredients.

**What is Bio X4?**

Although a lot of probiotic supplements are based and focus on digestive health, this particular one uses probiotics for a safe and effective weight loss and weight management. However, it does include two different strains of bacteria so that it can offer everything you need: digestive support, a faster metabolism, and assistance in the weight loss process. The product is manufactured by a company called Nucific Inc., which is quite a new company that was only founded in two thousand and fifteen and that is based in California, USA. They only published two health supplements up until now, and they are both intended for natural weight loss. Unfortunately, Bio x4 can only be bought through the internet at the moment, but if the product is successful, it will probably end up on the shelves of various retail or grocery stores very soon.

It is important to remember that this supplement is claimed to promote more than just weight loss. It also supports a healthy digestive system, bowel regularity, a stronger immune system and a faster metabolism. This is precisely what [efficient probiotics are supposed to do](https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/16827601), but Nucific X4 also contains other ingredients that can reduce the appetite and the cravings, ease the digestion and decrease the absorption of carbs, fat, and protein. It does not include any unnatural ingredients, filler components or genetically, modified organisms and it is also an allergen and gluten-free so absolutely anyone can use it. It is even very suitable for vegetarians and vegans because it does not contain lactose or meat or any other ingredient of animal origin. 
The unfortunate thing about this product is that it is so recently published that it barely has any customer reviews available. Luckily, the user reviews that do exist all seem to be very positive with no complaints whatsoever, so it seems like the Nucific Bio supplement is definitely off to a good start. But if we take a closer look at each of the ingredients and some of the scientific research behind them, it seems like this product does have the potential to assure a safe and effective weight loss process. The company also seems utterly legitimate because there are even pictures and lots of information about the board members of the company, including the leader of the board, Dr. Amy Lee who is an extremely praised physician.

Biox4 has not been evaluated by the Food and Administration Drug in the United States of America, so it does not have their approval, but this does not mean much considering they do not evaluate or approve most health supplements. However, all of the [ingredients in bioX4](https://hlbenefits.com/bio-x4/) have been proven not to be able to affect the body in a harmful manner. This is not necessarily a positive aspect because they might not be able to affect the body positively.

**BIO X4 – the bottom line**

Apparently, every single body tolerates various ingredients differently, but probiotics can positively contribute to a digestive system that is balanced well. And given the fact that Nucific BIO X4 is marketed as a weight loss supplement, we are pretty sure that you would have to see at least some results. Luckily, when you buy this product, it comes with a ninety-day money back guarantee policy, so you could get all of your money back even if this is not the right weight loss supplement for you.

